---
layout: post
date: 2010-01-03 20:47
title: "Configuring and compiling Nginx and PHP-FPM on Ubuntu for Magento, Part 3"
categories: [Web-Development, e-Commerce]
keywords: [apc,magneto,nginx,mod_rewrite,htaccess]
# permalink: configuring-and-compiling-nginx-and-php-fpm-on-ubuntu-for-magento-part-3
---

<p>This is the 3rd and final article about installing Magento on Nginx with PHP-FPM. <a href="http://www.chilipepperdesign.com/2009/12/14/configuring-and-compiling-nginx-and-php-fpm-on-ubuntu-for-magento-part-1">Part 1 is here</a>, and <a href="http://www.chilipepperdesign.com/2009/12/18/configuring-and-compiling-nginx-and-php-fpm-on-ubuntu-for-magento-part-2">Part 2 is here</a>.</p>

<p>This part explains how I set up my public web directories, and how I did the Nginx configuration files for a Magento site. One of the tricky things about switching to Nginx from Apache is that Nginx does not use .htaccess files or the usual Apache mod_rewrite rules for pretty/SEO URLs. You can replicate all of Magento's mod_rewrite rules with Nginx's own rewrite module, but it takes some getting used to and Magento doesn't come with them pre-written (like the mod_rewrite rules in the .htaccess files).</p>

<p>Here are some of the resources I used:</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://articles.slicehost.com/2009/3/6/ubuntu-intrepid-nginx-virtual-hosts-1">Slicehost: Nginx Virtual Hosts #1</a></li>
<li><a href="http://articles.slicehost.com/2009/9/4/ubuntu-intrepid-nginx-virtual-hosts-2-2">Slicehost: Nginx Virtual Hosts #2</a></li>
<li><a href="http://www.magentocommerce.com/boards/viewthread/7931/">Magento Forum: NginX Web Server with Magento</a></li>
<li><a href="http://www.magentocommerce.com/boards/viewthread/38134/">Magento Forum: Thread about Fooman Speedster (which I never go to work)</a></li>
<li><a href="http://markmail.org/message/fdurus5iczudtm62">Random MarkMail post (I needed Google Translate to help me out)</a></li>
<li><a href="http://varien.com.ua/blog/Fustanovka-magento-dlya-raboty-s-nginx-php-fpm-apc">varien.com.ua (Also needed Google Translate to help me out)</a></li>
</ul>

<p>First we'll set up the directory structure like we are used to with Apache:</p>

<pre><code>
# mkdir /usr/local/nginx/sites-available
# mkdir /usr/local/nginx/sites-enabled
# mkdir /var/www/example1.com/public
# mkdir /var/www/example1.com/log
# cp  /usr/local/nginx/conf/nginx.conf /usr/local/nginx/conf/nginx.conf-original
</code></pre>

<p>Then set up the base nginx conf file <em>/usr/local/nginx/conf/nginx.conf</em>:</p>

<pre><code>
user www-data;
worker_processes 1;

events {
    worker_connections 1024;
}

http {
    include mime.types;
    default_type application/octet-stream;
    sendfile on;
    keepalive_timeout 65;
    gzip on;
    include /usr/local/nginx/sites-enabled/*;
}
</code></pre>

<p>Then set up the Nginx conf file for your website. I am using the default site in this example <em>/usr/local/nginx/sites-available/default</em>, but if you have multiple sites instead of <em>default</em> you would create files called <em>site1.com</em>, <em>site2.com</em>, etc.</p>

<p>This file is where all of the rewrite magic is. The url in this example is <em>example1.com</em>, which you should replace with your own. The document root is <em>/var/www/example1.com/public</em> which, again, you will need to change to match your own configuration.</p>

<pre><code>
# fastcgi nodes
upstream  backend  {
    server unix:/tmp/fcgi.sock;
}

# redirect all non-www requests to www requests (it would be easy to reverse this)
server {
    listen   80;
    server_name  example1.com;
    rewrite ^/(.*) http://www.example1.com/$1 permanent;
}

server {
    listen       80;
    server_name www.example1.com;

    # protection (we have no .htaccess)
    location ~ (/(app/|includes/|lib/|/pkginfo/|var/|report/config.xml)|/\.svn/|/.hta.+) {
        deny all;
    }
   # pass php files over to PHP-FPM via the socket
    location ~ (\.php)$ {
        fastcgi_index index.php;
        include /etc/nginx/fastcgi_params;
        fastcgi_param SCRIPT_FILENAME $document_root$fastcgi_script_name;
        if (-e $request_filename) { # check if requested path exists
            fastcgi_pass backend;
        }
    }
    # the javascript compressor
    location ^~ /js/index.php {
        fastcgi_pass   backend;
        fastcgi_index index.php;
        fastcgi_param  SCRIPT_NAME $fastcgi_script_name;
        fastcgi_param  SCRIPT_FILENAME  /var/www/example1.com/public$fastcgi_script_name;
        include /etc/nginx/fastcgi_params;
        access_log off;
        expires 30d;
    }
   # special case for the error "report" pages
    location /report/ {
        fastcgi_index index.php;
        include /etc/nginx/fastcgi_params;
        fastcgi_param  SCRIPT_NAME /report/index.php;
        fastcgi_param  SCRIPT_FILENAME  /var/www/example1.com/public/report/index.php;
        if (!-f $request_filename) {
            fastcgi_pass backend;
            break;
        }
    }
    # pass everything else over to PHP-FPM via the socket
    location / {
        root /var/www/example1.com/public/; # absolute path doc root
        index index.php index.html index.htm;

        # set expire headers
        if ($request_uri ~* "\.(ico|css|js|gif|jpe?g|png)$") {
            expires max;
        }
        # set fastcgi settings, not allowed in the "if" block
        include /etc/nginx/fastcgi_params;
        fastcgi_param SCRIPT_FILENAME $document_root/index.php;
        fastcgi_param SCRIPT_NAME /index.php;
        # rewrite - if file not found, pass it to the backend
        if (!-f $request_filename) {
            fastcgi_pass backend;
            break;
        }
        error_page 404 index.php;
    }
    access_log /var/www/example1.com/log/access.log;
    error_log /var/www/example1.com/log/error.log;
}
</code></pre>

<p>I am no expert with Nginx, but a lot of Google searching and trial and error gave me the file above, and it seems to work. I hope it is helpful, even if this exact code doesn't work for you.</p>

<p>Finally, activate the site by creating a symbolic link to it and restarting the server:</p>

<pre><code>
# ln -s /usr/local/nginx/sites-available/default /usr/local/nginx/sites-enabled/default
# ln -s /usr/local/nginx/sites-enabled /etc/sites
# /etc/init.d/nginx restart
</code></pre>

<p>And that's it! You should now have Magento running on Nginx! (<em>After</em>, of course, also installing mysql and a sendmail program, and probably an FTP server, and who knows what else :)</p>

<p>Now, how to make it actually go faster than Apache? There are many settings you can tweak. Look in <em>fastcgi_params</em> to change PHP-FPM settings, <em>php.ini</em> to change APC settings, <em>my.cnf</em> to change mysql settings, <em>nginx.conf</em> to adjust the number of worker processes and the keepalive timeouts... the list goes on. Good luck!</p>